It's 8th October, and we're in your car.
Where are we driving?
Just to give me a... We're heading east on Caramont Boulevard.
And we're in Shankar, or... No, we're still in Cog and County.
And we're heading into from, you might say, Beechwood into Hunting Valley now.
I mean, you could be, as far as I'm concerned, in a New England town or a village right now.
Yes.
I'm looking at splendid fall foliage and old cemetery off to the right.
I see no evidence of skyscrapers or air pollution or urban discord or anything.
You won't see any.
I could be in, as you said earlier before I put the tape recorder on, this is like an overgrown farm village, is your phrase.
and now I feel like I'm out in the country.
We have everything that every New England city could possibly have, from the orchestra, the arts, to the universities, to the...
Museum of Natural History, the historical theme.
All of that you'll see tomorrow with Bob Schutcher.
He's going to take you through the University of Ontario and to downtown Cleveland, the Chrysler Klaus Bookstore and the Cleveland Public Library, which is well, you know,
Not as much as they should.
I didn't realize that it was about the second or third largest in the United States.
After the NYPL, you know, which is, you know, a class by itself.
I'm sorry, are you going to say something?
No, they had the library.
Whether it's the library or the museum in Cleveland, our team ranks right up there in the top half dozen in the country.
And the same with the historical and the garden centers.
I'm a book finder.
I want to be known as Buckley.
And I ran a big machine shop that did nuclear work with the Navy.
We made the gut part that went into all the reactors and the tax-ups.
You split your hair 20, 30 times and hold it.
I'm an old naval officer, I have to say.
And I've been up to Droughton and Newport and places like that, watch the assemblies and things.
Now, of course, they're not doing anymore.
What shall I say, I close that company down, and I have a little injection molding company now.
So, but you say... But I'm a bookbinder at heart.
But you're a bookbinder at heart, and do you... Look at this, are these horse farms out here?
Yeah, I'm going to, we're just going to take a little left here.
Isn't it beautiful?
It's really gorgeous.
Fairmount, F-A-I-R-M-O-U-N-T Boulevard.
And we're at the corner of Chagrin, Chagrin, C-H-A-G.
Chagrin River, yeah.
River Road.
This is Hunting Valley, and if we go left, we're going to go into Gates Mills.
We're going to come back.
We're running way early, and I know Jan well enough that I said 11 o'clock, and we will be there at 11 o'clock.
We come in at 20 of 11.
He's not going to be ready for us.
Well, it's just 20 of now, so.
Yeah, but we got time.
So that's fine.
So you're a book finder.
Do you actually, in fact, do you have equipment at home that you knew where you're doing?
I haven't done any finding.
I haven't backed away.
I have all my old hands.
without getting into the fate of the business.
Your father was a bookbinder.
At an early age, you learned to respect and to love the book.
I guess I'm just looking through, you know.
Well, the reason I started book collecting is I used to go to the library conventions, and I found that most of the librarians didn't know anything about book finding or really books.
As objects, you mean?
Yes.
I mean, it was just a little bit of a nice building, isn't it?
What do you think of my tape?
Village of Gates Mills, established in 1826.
I had no idea.
So you went to these groups and they didn't know anything about books, right?
Binding and, you know, printing and paper making and so forth.
And I found that none of the book finders knew anything either.
Most of them couldn't find a book if their life depended on it.
They were just managers.
So, um, Jesse Shearer at the time, when I took over in 52, Jesse Shearer became the dean of the library school in the Western Reserve, and I said, Jess, I'm going to put something together here, and then I'll teach.
Well, the Korean War, and he ended up over there, came back, and then I started to collect them.
And you probably don't know this, but Dart Hunter,
The great paper maker in this country is from Chillicothe, Ohio.
I went down there once when I took a couple of library classes in college.
I met Dart Hunter, a senior, and he was doing American paper making at the time.
He had made the paper and had just printed it and they were hanging all over the place.
And so, before I went into the service in 1953, I went to Kaiserslaut's bookstore and I said to Peter to buy me all the dart hunters that came into his store.
When I came back out in 54, I went down to the store, and I said, Peter, I said, there's nothing at the factory from the Dart Hunters.
He looked at me, and he said, I didn't think you were serious.
Oh, my.
And, you know, coming out of Korea, I knew more four-letter words than I did for what Peter said.
I just ran him through like I would my troops, right?
And he said, get out, and I told him to get off his dead ass and get me those damn books.
He was a paper maker, Hunter?
Dart Hunter was, yes.
So how would you know what his books were?
I mean, his name isn't on them.
Oh, yes.
Oh, so it's in the watermark or something?
I'll show you the books.
I have them all.
I'm new as the father, the grandfather, the father, and the son has been to my house now.
Now, this is the center of basically Gates Mills.
I'm going to take you into the downtown area.
It's beautiful.
Now we're crossing the Chagrin River, I would assume.
Because this is where they... I live in other... They're taking a left on a route north, State Route 174.
This is the river road, and you'll see...
I have what's unique about design.
Nobody, the mail, you have to pick it up at the post office.
They don't deliver it to the house.
And the reason for that is that the community wants everybody to know each other.
The best way you can do that is having all the mail picked up at the post office.
Nice.
What would you say the population is of this village?
I don't know.
A couple thousand?
You think it's that many?
Oh, yeah.
So there's no, there's no, there's no mail, I see, there are no mail, right?
A couple of post office boxes.
That's, no, those are for newspapers.
Oh, I see.
You have to go to the post office.
We're going to turn around.
Okay.
I'll take you on the other side because they have a few homes over here.
And this goes to Mayfield Road.
Do these people generally work in Cleveland?
This is kind of like a commuter town, right?
Yes.
Right.
Most of these people out in this area all go into planning to work, quite a few do, but there are many offices that are moving out now as they are.
Most of these, like New York City, I mean, everyone's getting up in Stamford, places of that nature.
It's important getting out because
The rents have gotten up.
The parking is expensive.
Who wants to be on the road that much?
Are people able to take trains into the city?
No, we don't have any trains here.
No trains.
That's what makes Shaker so nice.
From Bob, he can drive up to the Shaker Rapid, and it'll take them right downtown Cleveland, right on Public Square.
This is the Hunt Club.
and community church, library.
The hunt, in terms of the hunt?
Yeah, they still do.
They have horses.
And I'll show you the field here.
And they have their jumping and whatever else they do.
No, there's some people out there on their horses this morning.
Right, and they have other people that actually get, they truck the horses out further into the farming community where they actually still do some pops.
So you basically have been involved and concerned with books all your life, I guess.
Oh, yeah.
Until just recently where I now have a plastics company that I
What we make is the ring unit that you see in notebooks, you know, the three ring units, we make them out of plastic.
We were doing well until they took the metalworks and equipment from this country and put it into China.
It killed us.
With the labor rates, you know, they pay them $100 a month, you know.
We took it out of the chin.
We lost better than 60% of our business in one month.
And so now we're hanging in there and we're doing contract work and so forth.
We're going to turn around here.
My other brother, he has a twin.
He lives in this house.
He used to be with the, he lived in New Canaan.
He was with IBM and worked for Tom Watson and that group with Tom's speeches.
And then he went with the gardener.
He became president of the gardener.
That's really cool.
And then he came back to Craven.
He started a company and just recently sold that company.
And I got him in my factory.
It's a small place in the United States where we had some offices.
I gave him a couple of offices up there.
I pay high rent downtown to live in.
Sure.
It's absolutely beautiful.
What kinds of trees do you think these are?
These are elms.
Are they elms?
These are still elms.
They're trying to save them.
And they're working on the devil, but you can see maples planted in between them.
Yeah, right.
Well, there's a pretty bad lead disease for them there that can work well.
We lost all of our elms.
We did, too, where I live.
I had elms.
People like this.
That's so beautiful out there.
These people riding their horses, the early morning ride.
And we had, you know, they had, they started an elm tree.
They thought they had one that was disease resistant.
And I was trying to, I was going to drive down to Kentucky where there was a nursery on these blooming things and get some.
And then I read there's a red spotted fever and they're allergic to that and they were just,
they just die again isn't that terrible so there's nothing and so now i've been watching chestnut too see if they come up i have a couple of chinese chestnuts but those are nothing compared to what the old american chestnut you know when in your book what you missed is jack bartfield b-a-r-t-f-i-e-l-d yeah jack bartfield he was the color place man he handled more um
Audubon, than anyone ever had handled in a lifetime.
Jack had them all.
He was a collector?
No, no, he was a dealer.
Well, we'll rectify that.
Jack is still, let me give you a couple of clues.
He's still on West 57th Street.
I think it's 100 West 57th.
He used to be at 45 West 57th.
And his nephew is now running Barfield Art Gallery, American Art.
He was also the top man, as far as I was concerned, in American art.
He had an eye that was just out of his world.
He was a lawyer.
He had a degree from NYU.
He was a bookseller?
He was a bookseller for his sets, color plate books, and American art.
his uh his brother who's actually he's still living his name is is is george barkfield but he goes by the name george murray his nephew
Michael Frost, his nephew, is running the American art team.
And he's got an idea.
I won't say American art, you mean paintings.
Paintings, and bronzes, you know, Remington, Schreiber, Russell, Felser, all of that stuff.
And the bronzes.
Those are two that you missed.
I mean, at Bartfield, because when I used to go to New York, and that's how I took my vacation with Peter, when he went to the auctions, I'd carry his bags and follow them around.
And we'd always end up, started at Jack Bartfield's for lunch, went to the auction, and then we went to John's at 4 o'clock, because John served drinks at 4.
And never before 4.
And then we'd sit with John for a couple of hours, and then John would drive back up to Larchmont.
His wife was still living, but she left the house, and she moved to a smaller house in Larchmont.
And John would drive up there, and then we'd have dinner with Jack again.
And I started the scene in 19—let's see, when would I start?
1958 when I started to collect.
So, Pete would take me to every damn bookstore, you know, that you could think of.
So you started to collect in 1958.
How old were you then?
Uh, let's see.
I was about 30 years old.
Three or four years out of the Army at that point, right?
Oh, yeah.
I was still single.
That's when I had money.
I had money.
Now, I enjoyed it because I never took time off from work because we were brought up to work.
And the more hours I worked, I could cut the overhead.
If I cut the overhead, I could make more money, which meant I could spend more money on books.
Did you have a focus at the beginning?
Yeah, the book finding.
I had printing, paper making, book finding, examples of book finding, you know.
And then I got into Western art.
and exploration.
It's a general library, but a very heavy accent on Dart Hunter.
So he's basically the cornerstone of the- That's where I started, yes.
Everything started to revolve around him.
So I'll have to find some material on him to read about him.
He's famous.
Everyone knows Dart Hunter because he was the only man.
He traveled before World War II.
Traveled in all of these countries.
Got examples of the paper.
Wrote about the story.
Came up and took photographs.
Wrote about the people.
and then printed the paper, designed the type, and printed it, and then he did everything but book finding.
Now, what kinds of books did he do?
Were they fine press books or... I'm talking in terms of content.
Well, the content, you see, all this stuff was destroyed during World War II, basically.
What do you mean it was destroyed?
Well, I mean, all these countries that he was in,
Oh, I see.
That stuff was basically destroyed, forgotten.
They didn't do it after World War II anymore.
And they're basically Indo-China, China, Japanese.
He brought all the examples here.
I'm interested in this.
I'm going to have a World War II and Consequences of World War II chapter in this book.
This is very interesting to me.
It's D-A-R-D-A-Q-N-T-E-R.
That's the way it sounds.
Yes.
And it's the third.
I'll show you all this.
Now, did he write about this, about going to Europe and how all this stuff was destroyed?
Oh, yeah.
His son wrote a whole history of the father.
The son worked with the father.
So did the son write about how his father went to Europe and all these places?
Yeah, the last two volumes, I'll tell you those, that the son did.
And does he point out that it's good that his father did this?
No, he didn't get into that.
There's another gal up in Massachusetts, Brookline, that wrote a book here.
She also says that, and I'll have to give you her name, up there.
A Brookline woman.
She has about 20 minutes from Brookline.
Right, you should... Did you talk to John this morning?
Yeah, look at that.
I'm yakking around too much.
No, but I mean, you know what I'm saying is he's... John's calm down.
He... Does he have this perception of me as a... No, you see, as I tried to...
I'm looking here at your shelves and I see from here to return.
You want to start from the top because I've got, instead of my author,
I have it by, because of my interest is of movies, you know, you'd have your, and this is not a terrific edition.
So it's all about Eve?
Yeah.
Who's the author on that?
All About Eve?
I can't see it.
I can't even think.
I'm sorry.
Oh, no, forget it.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
Forget it.
No, I'll get it.
I just thought you'd be able to know that right off the top.
I know most of them, but on that one scene... I don't know what... Well, this really was an original screenplay by Joseph McElroy.
Yeah, that's right.
I didn't realize it was Joseph McElroy.
So that's why I... Yeah, I wasn't sure.
And, yeah, it's sort of acquiring the rest of Western freedom.
We all know about that.
By Peter Schaefer.
Arsenic and old lace by...
The Asphalt Jungle by W.R.
Burnett.
And the background dancer.
I'm sorry, what?
There's this background dancer.
Is that a movie?
Danger.
No, that's Eric Gambler.
Background to Danger.
Oh, background.
It looks like cancer.
He's an English author.
Eric Gambler's famous.
I just couldn't.
The Dialogue of Cat Ballou, which I didn't realize was a novel, by Roy Chancellor, C-H-A-N-S-L-O-R.
I won't go through the whole thing, but you've got Bougest, you've got Ben Hur, The Big Sky.
The Big Sleep, The Bonfire of the Vanities, which was a terrible movie.
Terrible, but not a bad book.
But a wonderful book.
Yeah.
Brideshead Revisited, wonderful.
Yeah, these are offers, and all in their dust jackets.
See, that's the main thing.
Well, I'm just doing this.
I love them.
Day of the Jackal, Dr. No, which is that song, which is Ian Fleming's song, Elmer Gantry, Sinclair Lewis.
These are...
A very scarce book.
You've got The Godfather, Goldfinger, Giant, From Here to Here.
That's a nice collection.
Goodbye, Mr. Chips, The Grapes of Rath.
Yeah.
These are both signed.
Goldfinger is signed.
No, which is signed?
The Puzo?
Gone with the Wind.
Gone with the Wind?
Is that the first Gone with the Wind?
Oh, yeah.
You want to see it?
Yeah.
That's pretty good.
Oh, yeah.
And that's signed?
Wait a minute.
I'll get it.
And on your desk over here, up on the other side, you had 20th Century Fox.
Yeah, that came off the building.
Did it?
Yeah, when they tore it down.
So how did you get it?
No, I found it in an antique shop down in Florida.
You're kidding.
No.
Isn't that great?
Yeah.
That's one of these things that just happens.
It's so wonderful, isn't it?
Yeah.
See, the condition here is the key.
That's a lot of it.
And you know that it's original when you've got this here.
When you have which one?
I'll show you in a minute.
When you have on the back, you see the... Oh, it lists this book.
Yeah, and it has to be correct that way.
Now, it has to be in May after May.
Yeah, it is.
It's to Harry W. Drew, whatever that is.
I don't know.
It's an unscribed book.
Congratulations.
There it is, published May 1936.
This is probably a case where the movie was much better than the book.
Maybe you disagree.
Well, I don't know.
I think it was a good book.
I mean, it's better than the average book.
No, it's not a great book.
Oh, no, no, no, nobody's ever, no, it's not a great book.
But it was, I thought it was better than a Frenchie sentence woman.
This is really nice.
This is terrific.
I love this.
Goodbye, Columbus, which was a funny movie.
Yeah.
And that's a tough get.
That's the only Philip Watt that I don't have in my own.
I have a Watt collection.
I like Watt.
Yeah, Columbus.
Yeah.
Got another rock over here somewhere.
But it's not in this collection.
So how did this come about?
Oh, when I was a boy, I mean, I was always interested in movies, and then I got polio, and then I realized I couldn't, you know, really act in it.
So you dreamed of being an actor then?
Oh, you see, my plan was that I was going to play second base for the New York Yankees in the summertime.
And then in the off-season, I was going to be a movie star.
Oh, good for you, yeah.
See, we had Paul Newman here in town.
He was a good friend of mine.
Is that right?
Yeah.
He's from this area.
I didn't know that.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
And he went to Kenya and then gave him respect for that.
He's kind of more of a neighbor of mine than he is of yours.
Now, what, you have in Connecticut?
No, I live in Central Mass, but everyone was like 20 minutes from Connecticut.
Yeah, well, that's where he lives.
He's on a Westport, I think.
Yeah.
And then, The Lost Weekend by Charles Jackson.
And The Last Picture Show by Larry McBride.
See, some of the really tough books to get.
Oh, yeah.
That's very interesting.
Former by Liam L.I.A.M.
O'Flaherty.
Yeah.
And Cold Blood by Truman Capote.
Peter Leslie Jaws.
The Man Who Came to Dinner, by Kaufman and Hart.
I think they rated Minsky's, Warren Barber.
Do you have booksellers looking for these groups?
This is a tough one.
I've got all of his.
Mutiny on the Bounty is a tough one.
I've got most of the Super A's over with all of his stuff.
I'm just doing this for the sake of buy-in.
Well, Africa's fairly recent film.
Yeah, no, that's not an English edition.
Well, yeah, this one is English, I think.
And, of course, she was a Gange.
I think this Huffington, which I reviewed when it came out.
That sign, which I'll describe.
This sign, I'll describe.
It was kind of a, I think that was a Dom de Guerre, that name that he used.
Yeah, it was.
Kenneth Robbins, Northwest Passage.
Actually, so how many do you figure you have?
Oh, I don't know.
A hundred and twenty or so.
Oh, there's more than that.
This is one of the better looking ones, you know, for aesthetics.
This, when I bought it,
I hadn't had it in an hour, and the dealer called me back.
My competition is out in California, with the directors and the actors, and they don't want these.
And to find this one... We're talking about the Philadelphia story by Philip Berry.
Yeah, right.
So what happened?
He called... Well, I wasn't going to give it up.
You know, he said he would double, you know, whatever.
This is a nice collection.
Smiley's People, Sophie's Choice, Serpico.
Yeah.
We have The Sin Man by Dashiell Hammett.
Here's one of the ones that the author of this book, Shane, is a member of Wolfheim.
And so he came to Cleveland.
The author, Jack Schaefer, C-H-H-E.
Yeah, yeah, Schaefer.
Those are
It's a pretty good movie.
But here, he signed it.
Oh, you want to go over there?
No, no, I'm just listening.
It said Jack Haynes.
Oh, that's inscribed with Jack Palance.
It's a great jacket.
I was just looking at Gravity's Red Bull, which is one of the great novels of my time.
It's a very, very hard book to get into.
In that condition?
Yeah.
Exceedingly.
I'll say it is.
And this Catcher in the Life, that wasn't a movie, was it?
No, no.
See, these books over here are books that are not in my collection.
I mean, they're not part of the collection of movies.
These are books that I bought for my own, you know, location.
Okay.
Yeah.
So again, you wanted to be a, I had to work with all that.
That's just, I'm making, you know, kind of fun.
I mean, everybody, when you're a boy, you know, you all have your dreams.
And I did play third base when I was in high school.
So all that stuff was blown apart.
So what did the collection start with?
What was the first movie book?
Well, actually, the first book I ever really bought was this book, right up here.
And it was Nicholas Nickleby.
And, uh, Dickens, is that a first, Dickens?
Yeah.
Nicholas Nickleby.
Yeah, and that was a book that, uh... That's not Sideway Dickens, is it?
I can't, I don't, I can't... I know, I know, I know, I know more of it.
But I only paid, I think, $80 for it.
But it took me, it took me two and a half years.
I had to pay this paper route, the largest paper route in Cleveland.
It took me two and a half years to pay for it.
Wait a minute, you were a boy when you bought this?
Yeah.
How old?
Oh, I was just before I pointed at 15.
This has been $80 for a book when you were 15.
Yeah, I've been talking since I was 15.
I'm impressed.
Why, you shouldn't be all that.
Well, no, I think for a 15-year-old kid.
Oh, yeah, well, what happened was, it's kind of interesting, because what I did was I went downtown to, as a matter of fact, Newman Stearns.
Paul Newman's, his parents had a store here, it was a sports store, and I went down to get a third baseman's glove.
Why don't you sit down?
Yeah, sit down.
And so, then, yeah, and so what it amounted to was that they didn't have the kind of glove that I needed, so they said, go on over to Halley Brothers, which was a department store, and they've got a great sports department over there.
So I went over there and got off on the wrong floor, and there was a
gorgeous book department up there, and it took up the whole floor, which was much larger than, you know, and with all of these wonderful bindings and books and everything, and in those days, of course, Hemingway was young, and so, you know, we had F. Scott Fitzgerald and Eugene O'Neill, and I was looking at all these, and I knew some of these authors, because I used to read a lot, and so I reached up for this book up here,
And I heard this voice behind me that said, don't.
I went back, you know, because she didn't, she wanted to get the book out properly, instead of the way a youngster would reach out to get it.
So I, instead of getting the bat, the glove, because I only had, I think, I think I had about $12 on me, it was all.
And that was a lot of money, $12 was a lot of money.
And what was that out here?
What?
Where was that?
Downtown Cleveland.
Yeah.
What was the name of the store?
Do you remember about that?
Do you remember the name of the store?
Oh, Halley Brothers.
Halley Brothers.
Oh, that was a well-known name in Cleveland.
H-A-L-L-E-Y?
H-A-L-L-E apostrophe, yes.
It was Halley's.
It was the name of the owner, or the person who started the store, was Walter Halley.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, he was a wonderful man.
H-A-L-L-E.
Yeah, yeah.
And so, as a matter of fact, he went to Princeton with my cousin, Ted Linehan.
But that's another story.
So, I mean, I said I had to have that book.
And so she said, you know, you can put some money down on it, and I'll hold it for you.
And so finally I got it.
And I got some others up there.
So I started collecting when I was fairly young.
Did you know you were a collector?
Was this collecting for you?
No, I just had this kind of a lust.
I mean, it started, the germ or the genesis of it started right then at that instant.
Really?
As a matter of fact, there was... Why did it have to be Dickens?
Why was it there?
What was so... Well, I had... Because I had read the book, you see.
I had read the book, but I'd never seen a volume like that.
See, we had required reading.
When I went to high school, we had a very demanding English department, and we had to read, you know, I don't know how many books every summer, and even in junior high.
So we had to read, you know, we had to read Dickens and that sort of thing, you know.
So, I don't know, I don't think that's true today in high school, but, or junior high.
Pardon me?
Unfortunately, it's not true today.
No, no.
But my mother was, I mean, she had a lot of books, and so I was always being, you know.
And so, like, so... No, I, that's, so that's basically, so that, and then, of course, when I had poetry and everything like that, I had a lot of time to read.
How old were you?
15, I just went on 16.
Yeah.
So this is when I was... Well, that had been 1941.
40, so 41.
Yeah.
So...
But, actually, I lucked up.
That's another story.
You worked pretty well with it.
Yeah, I came out of it fairly well.
A lot of hard work.
The baseball career was over.
That was over.
The only thing I remember about that, I can remember that to throw a ball from third base to first base, which is the hypotenuse of a square of 90 feet, is 127 feet 3 3 8 inches.
You know, and you had to be good to be able to throw a ball that far.
Yeah, yeah.
So then I have other books.
I have a lot of books upstairs, too, and I need some books over here.
So there must be, with movies, I mean, you don't have Jurassic Park, for instance.
Well, that's the sort of thing that Creighton wrote that, didn't he?
Creighton.
Yeah, Creighton, yeah.
I'm not, that's...
I mean, I'm getting old, I guess.
I mean, it's not, although I probably should get it because that's the sort of thing.
Well, it's the biggest grossing movie of all time.
I don't care.
It's whether or not I consider it a good movie.
So, you go to the movies a lot?
I used to go a lot, but I don't anymore.
TV, of course, and because...
It's getting a little more difficult for me to get around.
So you get the cable now, number one, and you can get the tapes.
Yeah, and I have, no, I have LaserDisc.
That's what I have.
I have some of my favorite movies over here.
LaserDisc.
Yeah, the difference between LaserDisc and tape is just absolutely, you know.
No kidding.
Yeah.
So can you name some of them for me, movies that you have on LaserDisc?
And all these are this.
Can you just name a few for me?
Well, let's just say, how about Das Boot, which I consider one of the finest.
It was a German.
Do you have that book?
What?
No.
Well, I happened upon that book when I was up in Martha's Vineyard.
I have a relative up there who was- Was that just published about 15 to 20 years ago?
No, a little bit more than that, I think.
Yeah, that
That book came out, that was about the Second World War, and it was about a German submarine.
Yeah, I know, but it seems to me I reviewed that book.
Well, maybe you did, but I mean, the first time Barbara and I were up there, and I saw the book, and I pulled it out.
Of course, it was an English edition, not a German.
And so, I don't know that I'm answering your question.
I don't know.
See, I don't have the book, you know.
If I got it, see, it would be like getting, say, for instance, out of Africa.
I have that movie.
To have and to have not.
But out of Africa, for instance, you know, I have it in English, but I'd love to have it in Danish.
You know, that would be a sign.
That's the true collector, because the movie is in English.
I know.
I know the movie is in English, but the integrity of the book is such that
It's very important to me, and I'd love to have that in Danish sign language.
Of course, you can't read Danish, so it's not a book.
I don't care.
I mean, that, you see, again, you come down to the book.
It's the artifacts.
Yeah.
I'll give you a good illustration of that, the best I can, is The Treasure of Sierra Madre.
It was written by a gentleman named Traven.
And he kind of disappeared, but the black book really was written in German first.
I didn't know that.
Uh-huh.
And I have that.
That's a very, very difficult book to find in English.
It's got a wonderful jacket.
So that I have, you know, I have that.
To have, to have not.
Most of, you know, Hemingway's stuff that was made in the movies, and particularly with Bogart.
So when did you actually start getting the movies?
Later.
Because, see, what I had to do is I had to slug my way out of polio, and my preoccupation then went away from books and had, how was I going to go to school?
And I couldn't, you know, I wasn't in the war, obviously, and I didn't have the GI Bill.
My father had died when I was ten.
and my, his estate didn't settle until I was 40 years old, so I was... 40 years old?
Yeah, so... 30 years to settle down?
Yeah, yeah, that's another story.
I don't even want to talk about that, it was all legal.
But, um, so then, uh, you know, my struggle was, I mean, I got, I went to Ohio U, and, uh, that's because it wasn't so far, and it was a, I mean, physically it was terribly to me, and I didn't care for the school, so I
I was able to transfer into the University of Michigan, and then I was only able to do that in the summer times because what it amounted to was the physical demands of going from building to building, and versus, say, high school, which I did quite well in after polio, because that's one building, and you had youngsters helping you carry your books, and I got along well with everybody, so...
But in college, it's a lot less, you know, distant, remote, and... And what were you studying?
What were you planning?
Finance.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
I wanted, you know, American decorative arts, and I finally did some graduate work at Yale on that, but I never got a degree from college.
I got, was able to get into Yale through Charles Montgomery up there, and he said, I don't care about, they said, your grades are good, you come on in.
So...
So I was able to do that.
So I don't have my degree, but I can't help that.
That's just one of those things.
But getting back, did I answer your question?
I don't know that I did, didn't I?
I'm rambling.
That's fine.
I'm a rambler myself, so I like your discressive responses.
I guess I'm still interested in when you started.
Oh, then I started part.
That really was your question.
Then, from time to time, I would see a book in a store that related to a movie.
And if I saw it, then the integrity of the book was such a condition, I should say.
I was always interested in condition.
And if I could get it signed.
So, uh, of course, you can't always get it signed.
No.
But I'm, I don't, many of my books, most, I wouldn't say most, but I would say 50% of my books are signed.
And, uh,
I mean, as a matter of fact, I was looking at a book today, Eric Gambler, The Mask of Demetrius, that Jim Peppers got out in California.
He also has another copy of Jaws out there.
Now, I've got a copy of Jaws here, but it's not signed by Peter Benchley.
And his is signed, but my jacket is better than his.
So I'm thinking of... Before we get Benchley to sign that for you.
No, he doesn't do that, I don't think.
I've had people ask that.
Do you know him?
I've been to him a couple of times.
I do a book call.
I mean, I had his phone number in Princeton.
It was not a place in New Jersey, I think.
Well, hell, if I could do that, then I've already... That's what I do.
I get my books signed directly by the office.
Well, but you're well known.
I mean, they don't know me.
Everybody knows me.
Yeah, right.
Huh?
Yeah.
So, um...
So then I'd pick them up one at a time.
I'll bring in the other chair.
Let me get another chair.
So I'd add to them.
It's right by the chair.
I'd add to them as I went along.
And then when I became a member of RoFON, I think the pace probably accelerated because I wanted to impress people like Hugo Albers and this.
But you know, Barbara and I used to go out, there was a dealer out in San Francisco by the name of Ward Howell.
John.
I mean John Howell.
Why do I want to say Ward?
Well, his son was Warren.
But Ward Howell was our painter.
Yeah, right, all right.
So John, John Howell's.
But Warren Howell owned John Howell books.
Right.
He was always known as John Howell.
He was a big guy.
Yeah.
And I'll say he was.
He used to sit at a desk, a huge desk like this.
And so he had some vellum-covered rackums.
I have them up there.
And so I bought those from him.
And then one time we bought a painting.
It was a watercolor of...
Oh, boy, a Bucking Bronco.
A Bucking Bronco.
But who was the painter?
Boron.
Boron, Edward Boron.
And we'd had it, yeah, we'd had it for about, I don't think.
We loved it, too.
We loved it.
We had it for about four or five years, and I was really, I also had a Frank Tanny Johnson.
And so I get this call from Howell, and he said, Bill, he said, I have a problem.
And I said, well, what's your problem?
He said, well, the boring isn't right.
I said, what do you mean it's not right?
He said, well, he said, I think I bought this under conditions that maybe I shouldn't have, and I wasn't.
So he asked if I would return it.
Of course, obviously, he'd give me the money back, placentas, and all that.
Well, you know, I tell you, I like the painting so much that even though it wasn't right, I should have kept the damn thing.
I mean, I really liked it that much.
Right.
I'm going to grab one of these.
But he was a good book dealer.
Yes, and I messed up.
I used to meet him at Barfeel's, and when they had the auctions up in New York.
Yeah, yeah.
I didn't know what he was like to other people, but I really liked him.
I just thought he was a neat guy.
Take us out to lunch, you know.
I never met him, but I mean, he died.
just before I started work on my last book.
Yeah, I don't know whether I want this on tape or not, but I want to ask you a question.
Can you?
How do you turn it off?
The switch is right there next to the light.
Just put it in the middle.
I'll get it.
I'll take it over to him.
If you hear a beep, just tell me.
Well, that means that I've used a swear word or something.
No, no, no.
Well, so, you see...
What comes first?
Do you see a book that you appreciate and then it becomes a movie, or do you see a movie that you like and then you want to get the book?
No, that's a good question.
I think probably what the book has to do is to ring my bell, and it probably doesn't ring my bell unless it was a movie that, I mean, I really liked.
Now, to give you an illustration, most men wouldn't go for a book, like, say, called Now Voyager.
I enjoyed that movie.
That's an old movie.
I enjoyed it.
I saw the book, and it probably doesn't have it.
I guess I've got it around there somewhere.
So the book, I mean, the movie and the book are intertwined, and I had to have a real, say, love affair with the movie.
The movie and the fourth book.
I suppose, but now that wouldn't be true here, for instance, like, Gravity's Rainbow, I mean, that's a book that I've been looking for for a long time, and I got it about three years ago, and also Seven Gothic Tales, I mean, look at the condition, you know, and I don't know whether you're familiar with Henry James, I mean, H.R.
James, not Henry James, but H.R.
James, The Five Jars.
Yeah, look at the condition on that one, you know, that's...
So in Bombers, it was a good book.
That's not a valuable book, but it's a good book.
I think with a focus like this, you must have a pretty definite want list.
There must be books that you like to have.
Well, you know, think about, it depends upon whether you really have an interest in movies.
And when I think of movies, I mean, I think of movies that rang my bell when I was a youngster, like Gunga Deen.
Well, Gundudin was a ballad.
I mean, it was a poem by Kipling.
And so I finally had to get barrack room ballads, you know, which is a great... It's a great... And other ditties, isn't that the subject?
Barrack room ballads and other ditties.
I don't know that it says that, but... Let's see here.
I've got to open this up in a while here.
It opens up a different way.
In this edition, dust paper, 225 company premise, 200 for sale, and other verses.
Other verses.
Close.
Why did I think ditties?
I don't know why.
Well, you know.
Sound English, you know.
I mean, I can recite the last verse.
I'll see you later on.
He has a title with ditties in it.
Probably does.
Yeah.
So we'll see him later on at the place where he has gone, where it's always double drill and no canteen.
That's right.
Well, you know, there's a book out, a movie out, which my kids love.
It's called Jumanji, you know, with Robin Williams.
And that's based on a children's book by Chris Van Ellsberg.
It's a little 32-page illustrated children's book.
And that, I just didn't interview with Chris Van Ellsberg for a book haul a couple weeks ago.
It was out of progress.
I said, well, tell me, how does a 32-page children's book become a film?
Yeah.
Pretty interesting.
Pretty interesting kind of thing.
Because there's a lot of things like that, I guess.
Well, it's just, for instance, anything with Sidney Greenstreet in it, any movie with it.
I mean, I just, you know, I had to have that book.
How about Casablanca?
Well, that really wasn't, that was really written by two people.
That was an original screenplay.
The screenplay, yeah.
So, I mean, I have something to relate to it, but it's not a book.
It's probably the most interesting screenplay that was ever written, so far as fun reading.
Probably one of the most interesting movies ever been produced.
I'll say.
Yeah, and of course I have that on, you know.
So there were a lot of movies that were really nothing but screenplays, but that were screenplays.
That were original screenplays.
And that were wonderful movies.
But, you know, I mean, you can take Hemingway.
I mean, practically anything that he wrote that was in the movie, it was a good movie.
I can't think of anything that was a bomb in you.
No, no.
What was the last one, The Sea Around Us or something like that?
I think so.
I have that.
Other short stories that became... I can't pick any.
Really?
But, you know, so you can take... There were certain authors that... Goodbye Columbus is a short story.
Yeah.
It was a great movie.
It's a funny story out of that book.
Yeah.
I wonder if I ever did Stephen Crane's The Open Boat.
Did he ever make a movie out of that?
No, that's a red book.
Does that make a good play, maybe?
Yeah.
How about theater?
Are you limited to the theater?
Well, I mean, I have those books that were originally theater and then were, I thought that story, of course, would be a case in point.
I have an absolute exquisite copy of The Glass Menagerie.
I have all of Tennessee Williams.
Wow.
I don't have that.
And that was the first Williams that we got.
My wife said, we have to have it.
I said, hey, we don't collect Tennessee Williams.
She said, we do now.
It happens, doesn't it?
And then I later learned about a guy, a Hollywood guy, who traded for which Hemingway?
You know, really, The Sun Also Rises?
That's the most difficult.
I have that book, and I can't find it.
Can you believe that?
Ah.
And so this guy trained a perfect copy of that for a perfect copy of the Grass Menagerie because he was so much wanted.
I'd rather have the sun also rise.
And I said, my God, I wish I'd known this movie guy because my copy is like God's copy.
It's so beautiful.
It's absolutely exquisite.
Really mint copy.
Yeah.
I ran a few services at Bob Jackson's last night who showed me his book.
Have you ever seen a copy of
The grapes of wrath like this before?
And I said, I hate to tell you, but I have one that's nicer than I do.
I have one, same source, that looked like it came out of a time capsule.
Yeah, well, mine isn't, mine is just average.
I was just lucky.
I got it on Cape Codafall.
Is it signed?
No, no, no.
Then I wouldn't have gotten it for $150.
Oh, yeah, I didn't hear you say it.
I didn't say it, but it's perfect.
Even then I knew I was stealing it at $150.
And it's a first.
But had it been said, I think Ralph would have recognized.
Yeah.
That was a wonderful movie.
You must have East of Eden.
No, I don't.
You know, I'll tell you something about Steinbeck.
I'm not a fan of his, and I never really enjoy his movies that much.
The funny thing about his stuff, he always seems to be, there's always, the human being in Steinbeck's stuff seems to me to be
brought down to a level of an animal.
And if you think about it, if you ever read, I'm sure you had.
I love Steinbeck, actually.
Yeah, well, I just... We have a gentleman's disagreement here.
Yeah, no, I gotta... I just, I cannot get with Steinbeck.
You see the cool hand Luke up there.
Yeah.
This is great.
You have mash.
That must be tough.
It is.
I did not know that that was a book.
You see, this is the problem.
I mean, it's a difficult thing because, I mean, I haven't seen a copy of that M.A.S.H., and I get catalogs of Sheik, and I tell you, I get them forever.
Try to find a copy of M.A.S.H., a decent copy.
I haven't even seen a copy.
Who is the author without getting that?
I can't think right now.
I'll get out.
It's right there.
When did you have this past couple?
I had that.
Oh, do you have that?
Yeah.
I have that in Advanced... Oh, that's terrific.
Well, so MASH is by Richard Hooker, H-O-K-E-R, a novel about three Army doctors.
And look at that wonderful dust jacket.
Yeah.
And what else did Richard Hooker do?
It's Morrow, 1968.
And the movie came out.
I was in the Navy.
I was on a ship in 1969.
Well, we saw it.
You know, we saw all the movies.
We weren't in any wars in 1969, weren't we?
I'll tell you, the most difficult book up there you'll probably get is to kill a mockingbird.
I have a wonderful... Well, I've got that signed.
You have that signed?
Yeah, I've got two kinds of, one a Canadian edition and the American edition.
I didn't know she signed books.
Not only that, I have a postcard from her and the other one with her farm.
She lives in a farm.
I can't think of her up east in the eastern seaboard somewhere.
That is a very, very difficult book to find.
Very difficult to find.
And you know we did the dust jacket picture from Capote.
Yeah, well, of course, that's what the book was...
He was the character.
That's right.
The rumor is, you know, that that's the reason she only did one book.
Maybe he did it.
He actually wrote it.
I saw him.
She helped him so much on, you know, one of those books there, which one it was.
He was a real unusual guy.
We were staying at the Sherry Netherlands one time in New York, and downstairs,
I'm sure you get into New York.
Well, that's the very place, hotel, where I interview Mario Puzo.
Yeah, well, you know where the little dining room is or anything like that.
As you walk in for the elevator, there's an elevator straight back, and you go downstairs, and there's the Raffles Club downstairs.
I couldn't get into that.
I wanted to see that club, because it's an English club, and I wanted to see that club.
So I don't think you got down there.
I got down there.
I waited upstairs.
Yeah, yeah.
I've never told you, but I gave this guy 50 bucks.
He took me down.
Well, Bob, what do you think of that?
Who do you suppose is sitting there by himself?
It was Capote.
So what was the attraction of the club for you?
Why was it so cool?
Because I've heard of it.
I mean, Christ, everybody's heard of the Raffles Club.
I used to sit there, of course, being an Ohio Rube, you know, and I'd sit there and I'd see these Bugattis coming up, and I loved the hotel.
When we'd go to New York, we'd stay at the Sherry Netherlands.
And you see these huge cars come in, and these famous people would be walking by, and it was a great bar there.
You could look out the window.
And then we were having breakfast one morning, and what's her name, was sitting right next to her.
Every time we went there.
Every time we went there, somebody... Yeah, she was right there.
She's got a book out right now that's just carrying Philip Roth.
Just in there.
Why?
She got some sort of a thing about him?
He's a tough guy to live with, I guess.
There was...
quite a piece about it in the New York Times.
But that, I think, of all hotels in New York, and I understand all hotels in New York, but that is a nifty hotel to stay in to see people.
I'm not sure you can even still stay there.
Maybe I'll, you know, rent it up.
No, because... Well, Mario was there.
They had a tough-less suite, and we were looking over Central Park.
It was wonderful.
It's right there in the 50s.
Oh, great spot.
Right on Fifth Avenue.
There it is.
Yeah.
You know, walking out too far, you go down to Albert Sacks down there if you want to see some great antiques and all that stuff.
He was late.
I was there right at the time.
He showed up with his bags upon bags of cigars.
Cheap cigars.
Cheap?
You know, because he can't really smoke them.
He just chews on them.
Really?
Because he's going to have a cigar.
I thought it was going to be a really good cigar.
I used to smoke cigars.
Terrible.
Cigars are in.
You ought to go back to them.
Oh, my point.
Yeah.
My wife got me equipment.
We get along just fine with these things.
I love the cigars.
But, let's see, we're... So, actually... I guess I was asking you what you want less, though.
Yeah, you know, I don't think I really have one much anymore because of the movies.
The style of the movies that's out today, of course,
You know, I mean, I could go out and get a first edition of the new ones.
The older ones, I'm not sure there's anything out there that I really would want that bad.
Well, how about Tom Jones?
Well, you see, that, as a matter of fact, what's-his-name's got a copy of that, Chilton.
Thompson.
Yeah.
And now you're talking, a copy of Tom Jones probably cost you $10,000.
You know, anyhow.
What I'm suggesting is that there are limits.
No, no.
And that was a wonderful movie.
Wonderful movie.
It was a wonderful movie, but it wasn't the kind of movie that stirred my soul.
In other words, I enjoyed it, and I think it was great.
Did Bonfire on the Fanatys show you?
No, I just happened to pick that.
I got that for nothing.
As a matter of fact, I'm about to take it down from there because I don't have the room.
You're going to take it from this side over to there?
No, no, no room over there.
No room at that end over there.
There's like, remember the movie Charlie with Cliff Robertson?
Claire Bloom was in that, as a matter of fact.
I wonder, he won the Oscar in that.
Yeah, but maybe, but see... That was from a story called Flowers for Algernon, and so it was a different title.
Do you have many cases where the title changed from the book to the... Oh, sure.
Sure, for instance, I mean, today, I mean, looking at a coffin for Demetrius, but the movie was a mask for Demetrius.
You've got that one reference book.
I have a reference book on, shows you the difference in the names.
Well, The Day of the Condor was three days of the Condor.
Three days of the Condor.
Yeah.
That was Robert Redford.
That was a hell of a movie.
Yeah.
There's a guy in my book, Walter Forzheimer, who that character was modeled on.
Really?
Yeah, it's in my book.
Yeah.
Now, that's a wonderful movie, but that's not a difficult book to get.
It shouldn't be.
No, no.
Because it's fairly recent.
Yeah.
So what would be the black orchid of this movie?
The Black Orchid?
Yeah, the really, the most elusive title.
Deep Sleep.
I've got it.
Maybe you didn't see it up there.
And I've got a magnificent copy of it.
Anything by Chandler, of course.
I think Chandler, I mean, I have to believe that the authors, in order of priority today,